README.md, before:

Python For Leetcode
==========

### How to solve a coding problem well:

  - Understand the problem well
  - Solve the problem on paper
  - Form clear logic
  - Turn the solution into code
  - Think about the test cases
  - Do the test cases for the code to test code
  - Use algorithms well known and understood to sovle new ones when possible
  - Pay special attention to corner cases/operations: first node, last digit of binary add, ...
  
### Binary, Int

Use **bin(num)**, **int(str, 2)**

```python
 a = '0b111'
 # Convert to int
 int(a,2)

 a =7
 # convert to binary
 bin(a)
```

### Dynamic Programming

  - Problems can be solved like F(n) = F(n-1) + F(n-2)
  
There are three ways to do Dynamic Programming: 
  - Backtracking: recursively solving the problem
  - Top-down dynamic programming: build a memoization table to reduce computation, a way to optimize backtracking.
  - Bottom-up dynamic programming: top-down to bottom-up conversion is done by eliminating recursion.
  - A good example: https://leetcode.com/articles/jump-game/

Example problems:
  - 62 Unique Paths
  - 91 Decode Ways
  - 44 Wildcard Matching: recursion -> build table -> DP
 
### DFS

Trick:
  - DFS and pass down parameters

Example problems:
  - 79 Word Search
  
### Greedy

  - Problems can be solved like maxReach = max(maxReach, i+x), where i+x is current reach.
  
Example problems:
  - 55 Jump Game
  - 45 Jump Game II

### Recursive

Example problems:
  - 40 Combination Sum II
  - 139 Word Break: recursion -> build table
  
### Divide And Conquer

Example problems:
  - 131 Palindrome Partitioning
  
### Linked List

  - It's all about rearrange connections.
  - Remember to use Dummy Head Node to make life easier.
  - Use points for many problems: two, three or four.
  - Careful about issue related to first node.
  - Careful about the nodes connection change. 
  - Partition List: separate one list into two lists and then combine together. Example: 86 Partition List

### Array/List problems

Trick
  - One, Two pointers
  - One or Two extra help arrays/lists: Trapping Rain Water, Product of Array Except Self 
  - From two ends and approaching middle
  - Use dictionary to save some results, similar to saving the solved results in dynamic programming 
  - Travel the list twice, once for processing to get some info, second time to find the answer.  
  
### Binary Tree Traversal

Problems uses in-order, pre-order or post-order traversal:
  - 129 Sum Root to Leaf Numbers: post-order traversal with additional flag.
  
### Tricky Math/Algorithm

Example problems:
  - 134 Gas Station

## Algorithms

#### 236 Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree

#### Reservoir Sampling

```sh
Init : a reservoir with the size： k  
  
for i= k+1 to N  
  
    M=random(1, i);  
  
    if( M < k)  
  
     SWAP the Mth value and ith value  
  
end for
```

#### Median of two sorted arrays

https://www.programcreek.com/2012/12/leetcode-median-of-two-sorted-arrays-java/

```python
def findMedianSortedArrays(self, A, B):
    
    l = len(A) + len(B)
    
    if l % 2 == 1:
        return self.kth(A, B, l // 2)
    else:
        return (self.kth(A, B, l // 2) + self.kth(A, B, l // 2 - 1)) / 2.

def kth(self, a, b, k):
    
    if not a:
        return b[k]
    if not b:
        return a[k]
    
    ia, ib = len(a) // 2 , len(b) // 2
    ma, mb = a[ia], b[ib]

    # when k is bigger than the sum of a and b's median indices
    if ia + ib < k:
        # if a's median is bigger than b's, b's first half doesn't include k
        if ma > mb:
            return self.kth(a, b[ib + 1:], k - ib - 1)
        else:
            return self.kth(a[ia + 1:], b, k - ia - 1)
    # when k is smaller than the sum of a and b's indices
    else:
        # if a's median is bigger than b's, a's second half doesn't include k
        if ma > mb:
            return self.kth(a[:ia], b, k)
        else:
            return self.kth(a, b[:ib], k)
```

#### Find Median from Data Stream

#### Permuation without recursion
The basic idea is, to permute n numbers, we can add the nth number into the resulting List<List<Integer>> from the n-1 numbers, in every possible position.

Get permutation of [1,2,3]
  - [[1]]
  - [[2,1], [1,2]]
  - [[3,2,1], [2,3,1], [2,1,3], [3,1,2], [1,3,2],[1,2,3]]

#### 325 Maximum Size Subarray Sum Equals k


Tricks:
  - Use a dictionary to carry sum2pos.
  - Update sum2pos only if it's a new sum.
  - Use a dictionary is also the trick to do 2Sum.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def maxSubArrayLen(self, nums, k):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :type k: int
        :rtype: int
        """

        sum2pos = {0:0}

        ans = None
        tsum = 0

        for i in xrange(len(nums)):

            tsum += nums[i]
            wanted = tsum - k
            if wanted in sum2pos:
                length = i + 1 - sum2pos[wanted]
                if ans is None or length > ans:
                    ans = length
            if tsum not in sum2pos:
                sum2pos[tsum] = i + 1

        return ans or 0
```

#### add without +

  - sum = a^b
  - carry = (a&b) << 1
  - recursive call this until carry == 0

#### Binary Search

Note: 
  - low=0, high = len(nums)-1
  - low <= high

```python
low = 0
high = len(nums) - 1
        
while low <= high:
    mid = (low+high)//2
    if target == nums[mid]:
        return mid
    elif target > nums[mid]:
        low = mid + 1
    else:
        high = mid - 1
```

#### Find min in rotated sorted array

```python
        start = 0
        end = len(nums) - 1
        while start < end:
            m = start + (end - start) / 2
            if nums[m] > nums[end]:
                start = m + 1
            else:
                end = m
        return nums[start]
```
Note: 
  - Using one conditional criteria: nums[mid] > nums[end], yes -> right; no -> left
  - Comparing with nums[start] does not work.
  
#### Rotate an array by k elements [1,2,3,4,5,6,7] by 3 into [5,6,7,1,2,3,4]
  - reverse the first n - k elements
  - reverse the rest of them
  - reverse the entire array

#### Two Sum Using Hash

```python
    def twoSum(self, num, target):
        map = {}
        for i in range(len(num)):
            if num[i] not in map:
                map[target - num[i]] = i
            else:
                return map[num[i]], i

        return -1, -1
```

#### Max sub array

```python
def maxSubArray(self, A):
    if not A:
        return 0

    curSum = maxSum = A[0]
    for num in A[1:]:
        curSum = max(num, curSum + num)
        maxSum = max(maxSum, curSum)

    return maxSum
```

#### Symmetric Tree

Solve it recursively.
  - root.left isMirror root.right
  - left.left isMirror right.right and left.right isMirror right.left
  
#### String permutation
    
Solve it recursively:
  - Try all n characters in the first position and reduce it to a n-1 characters permutation, ...
  - Combination is using two pointers.
  - Permutation is using one pointer.
  
Example Problems:
  - 634 Find the Derangement of An Array
  
#### Intersection of Two Linked Lists
    
At least three ways: 
  - Make a cycle in the list and find the cycle start
  - L1 + L2 and L2 + L1 should have the same ending
  - Let two pointers start from the places having the same distance from their end

#### Is Linked List Palidrome 
        
Reverse the second half of the linked list.

Note: 
  - Do change to part of the data.

Commit message:

Linked List Test Cases Run

README.md, after:

Python For Leetcode
==========

### How to solve a coding problem well:

  - Understand the problem well
  - Solve the problem on paper
  - Form clear logic
  - Turn the solution into code
  - Think about the test cases
  - Do the test cases for the code to test code
  - Use algorithms well known and understood to sovle new ones when possible
  - Pay special attention to corner cases/operations: first node, last digit of binary add, ...
  
### Binary, Int

Use **bin(num)**, **int(str, 2)**

```python
 a = '0b111'
 # Convert to int
 int(a,2)

 a =7
 # convert to binary
 bin(a)
```

### Dynamic Programming

  - Problems can be solved like F(n) = F(n-1) + F(n-2)
  
There are three ways to do Dynamic Programming: 
  - Backtracking: recursively solving the problem
  - Top-down dynamic programming: build a memoization table to reduce computation, a way to optimize backtracking.
  - Bottom-up dynamic programming: top-down to bottom-up conversion is done by eliminating recursion.
  - A good example: https://leetcode.com/articles/jump-game/

Example problems:
  - 62 Unique Paths
  - 91 Decode Ways
  - 44 Wildcard Matching: recursion -> build table -> DP
 
### DFS

Trick:
  - DFS and pass down parameters

Example problems:
  - 79 Word Search
  
### Greedy

  - Problems can be solved like maxReach = max(maxReach, i+x), where i+x is current reach.
  
Example problems:
  - 55 Jump Game
  - 45 Jump Game II

### Recursive

Example problems:
  - 40 Combination Sum II
  - 139 Word Break: recursion -> build table
  
### Divide And Conquer

Example problems:
  - 131 Palindrome Partitioning
  
### Linked List

  - Remember to work through one or two test cases, easy to miss/mess some pointer things.
  - It's all about rearrange connections.
  - Remember to use Dummy Head Node to make life easier.
  - Use points for many problems: two, three or four.
  - Careful about issue related to first node.
  - Careful about the nodes connection change. 
  - Partition List: separate one list into two lists and then combine together. Example: 86 Partition List

### Array/List problems

Trick
  - One, Two pointers
  - One or Two extra help arrays/lists: Trapping Rain Water, Product of Array Except Self 
  - From two ends and approaching middle
  - Use dictionary to save some results, similar to saving the solved results in dynamic programming 
  - Travel the list twice, once for processing to get some info, second time to find the answer.  
  
### Binary Tree Traversal

Problems uses in-order, pre-order or post-order traversal:
  - 129 Sum Root to Leaf Numbers: post-order traversal with additional flag.
  
### Tricky Math/Algorithm

Example problems:
  - 134 Gas Station

## Algorithms

#### 236 Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree

#### Reservoir Sampling

```sh
Init : a reservoir with the size： k  
  
for i= k+1 to N  
  
    M=random(1, i);  
  
    if( M < k)  
  
     SWAP the Mth value and ith value  
  
end for
```

#### Median of two sorted arrays

https://www.programcreek.com/2012/12/leetcode-median-of-two-sorted-arrays-java/

```python
def findMedianSortedArrays(self, A, B):
    
    l = len(A) + len(B)
    
    if l % 2 == 1:
        return self.kth(A, B, l // 2)
    else:
        return (self.kth(A, B, l // 2) + self.kth(A, B, l // 2 - 1)) / 2.

def kth(self, a, b, k):
    
    if not a:
        return b[k]
    if not b:
        return a[k]
    
    ia, ib = len(a) // 2 , len(b) // 2
    ma, mb = a[ia], b[ib]

    # when k is bigger than the sum of a and b's median indices
    if ia + ib < k:
        # if a's median is bigger than b's, b's first half doesn't include k
        if ma > mb:
            return self.kth(a, b[ib + 1:], k - ib - 1)
        else:
            return self.kth(a[ia + 1:], b, k - ia - 1)
    # when k is smaller than the sum of a and b's indices
    else:
        # if a's median is bigger than b's, a's second half doesn't include k
        if ma > mb:
            return self.kth(a[:ia], b, k)
        else:
            return self.kth(a, b[:ib], k)
```

#### Find Median from Data Stream

#### Permuation without recursion
The basic idea is, to permute n numbers, we can add the nth number into the resulting List<List<Integer>> from the n-1 numbers, in every possible position.

Get permutation of [1,2,3]
  - [[1]]
  - [[2,1], [1,2]]
  - [[3,2,1], [2,3,1], [2,1,3], [3,1,2], [1,3,2],[1,2,3]]

#### 325 Maximum Size Subarray Sum Equals k


Tricks:
  - Use a dictionary to carry sum2pos.
  - Update sum2pos only if it's a new sum.
  - Use a dictionary is also the trick to do 2Sum.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def maxSubArrayLen(self, nums, k):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :type k: int
        :rtype: int
        """

        sum2pos = {0:0}

        ans = None
        tsum = 0

        for i in xrange(len(nums)):

            tsum += nums[i]
            wanted = tsum - k
            if wanted in sum2pos:
                length = i + 1 - sum2pos[wanted]
                if ans is None or length > ans:
                    ans = length
            if tsum not in sum2pos:
                sum2pos[tsum] = i + 1

        return ans or 0
```

#### add without +

  - sum = a^b
  - carry = (a&b) << 1
  - recursive call this until carry == 0

#### Binary Search

Note: 
  - low=0, high = len(nums)-1
  - low <= high

```python
low = 0
high = len(nums) - 1
        
while low <= high:
    mid = (low+high)//2
    if target == nums[mid]:
        return mid
    elif target > nums[mid]:
        low = mid + 1
    else:
        high = mid - 1
```

#### Find min in rotated sorted array

```python
        start = 0
        end = len(nums) - 1
        while start < end:
            m = start + (end - start) / 2
            if nums[m] > nums[end]:
                start = m + 1
            else:
                end = m
        return nums[start]
```
Note: 
  - Using one conditional criteria: nums[mid] > nums[end], yes -> right; no -> left
  - Comparing with nums[start] does not work.
  
#### Rotate an array by k elements [1,2,3,4,5,6,7] by 3 into [5,6,7,1,2,3,4]
  - reverse the first n - k elements
  - reverse the rest of them
  - reverse the entire array

#### Two Sum Using Hash

```python
    def twoSum(self, num, target):
        map = {}
        for i in range(len(num)):
            if num[i] not in map:
                map[target - num[i]] = i
            else:
                return map[num[i]], i

        return -1, -1
```

#### Max sub array

```python
def maxSubArray(self, A):
    if not A:
        return 0

    curSum = maxSum = A[0]
    for num in A[1:]:
        curSum = max(num, curSum + num)
        maxSum = max(maxSum, curSum)

    return maxSum
```

#### Symmetric Tree

Solve it recursively.
  - root.left isMirror root.right
  - left.left isMirror right.right and left.right isMirror right.left
  
#### String permutation
    
Solve it recursively:
  - Try all n characters in the first position and reduce it to a n-1 characters permutation, ...
  - Combination is using two pointers.
  - Permutation is using one pointer.
  
Example Problems:
  - 634 Find the Derangement of An Array
  
#### Intersection of Two Linked Lists
    
At least three ways: 
  - Make a cycle in the list and find the cycle start
  - L1 + L2 and L2 + L1 should have the same ending
  - Let two pointers start from the places having the same distance from their end

#### Is Linked List Palidrome 
        
Reverse the second half of the linked list.

Note: 
  - Do change to part of the data.
